---

title: Glossary
date: 2018-07-22 12:25 UTC
tags: all_users


author: Jake Renzella
author_url: https://github.com/jakerenzella/
summary: See how to view and interpret student and task lists

---

This document contains a list of terms used throughout the Doubtfire system, explaining their meaning.

* Administrator - Someone who has permissions within Doubtfire to create and manage the Doubtfire system. May or many not be a member of teaching staff.
* Unit Chair/Convenor - The teaching staff member primarily involved with running a unit.
* Tutorial - A group of students within a unit grouped by time and location. Campus tutorials have a room number, cloud tutorials may not.
* Tutor - A member of the teaching staff, who is responsible for the marking of student task submissions for a given unit's tutorial.
* Unit - The subject or unit of study, for example: Introduction to Philosophy.
* Task - An individual piece of work a student may be asked to complete in a unit.
* Learning Outcomes - The academic outcomes which students will achieve at the completion of a unit.
* Task Alignment - How closely a given task is associated with each of the learning outcomes.
* Task Status/Task Grade - One of the possible task statuses a task can be on:
  * Fail - Not successfully met the requirements of the task.
  * Feedback Exceeded - Task has been submitted too many times, with the teaching staff concluding that the student is not heeding feedback.
  * Redo - The task has been assessed to be of low quality, or inappropriate, and should be restarted.
  * Fix and Resubmit - The task is on the right track, but needs to be improved or fixed.
  * Discuss - The tutor is happy with the submission, and would like to discuss the task with the student.
  * Demonstrate - The tutor is happy with the submission, and would like the student to demonstrate the work.
  * Complete- The tutor is happy with the submission, and it is ready for inclusion in the portfolio.
* Portfolio - A collection of student tasks (submissions) throughout a unit, which provides evidence of student learning. Student and tutor comments are included in the final document, and it is this document which is used to assess a final grade for the student.
* Target Grade - The grade which a student is aiming for, which dictates the sequence of tasks which should be completed in the unit. One of: Pass, Credit, Distinction, High Distinction.
* Task Inbox - The list of tasks which have been submitted by students, for assessment and feedback from the student's tutor.
* Task Definition - An assignment-like document which details what is expected and required of students for satisfactory completion.
* Plagiarism - In Doubtfire, plagiarism refers to a report containing information about a *possible* case of student plagiarism.
* Gravatar - The system which provides profile-photo support in Doubtfire.
* Student Groups - groups of students either within a tutorial or a unit, which allows submission of group work, rather than individual task submissions.