guides/staff/view-class-information.md, before:

---
title: Viewing Class Information
summary: See how to view and interpret student and task lists
authors: jakerenzella
---

# Student List

The student list is an important part of Doubtfire, which shows all enrolled students in a unit, information such as
student class allocation, and an overview of a student's progression through a unit.

To view the student list, log in to Doubtfire and select the unit for which you wish to view the student list from the
top-left dropdown:

<!-- TODO: <img alt="Student List" src="/images/articles/students/student-list/student-lists.png" style="width: 700px; display:block; margin: 0 auto;"></img> -->

You will see a list of students enrolled in the unit. The list is cut at 15 students per page, with pagination running
across the bottom of the page. By clicking anywhere in a list, you will be taken to the student's profile page, which
shows individual tasks status, their target grade, and burndown chart.

The student list is broken down into a number of sections:

<!-- TODO: <img alt="Student List" src="/images/articles/students/student-list/list.png" style="width: 700px; display:block; margin: 0 auto;"></img> -->

## Search bar and filer

The search bar allows you to search and filter for:

- Student Name: The search for students with matching names.
- Tutor Name: The students presented will belong to the tutor searched for.
- Tutorial Filter: By selecting the dropdown on the right hand side, you will be able to apply filters such as:
  - ALl tutorials
  - My tutorials
  - Sort By Grade
  - Sort By Plagiarism
  - Sort By Portfolio Status

## Basic Information

The left hand panel lists the Student ID, and Name of each student. You can sort by Student ID or Name, and by default
the list is sorted by Name, indicated by the blue triangle next to _name_.

## Stats/Progress

The progress bar in the _stats_ column shows a quick-view of the student's progress through the tasks in the unit. For
example in the screenshot below, student_23 has failed 25% of tasks, not started 25% and completed 50%. You can also
sort by progress -- an easy way to view students who are not progressing through the unit quickly enough.

<!-- TODO: <img alt="Progress" src="/images/articles/students/student-list/progress-chart.png" style="width: 700px; display:block; margin: 0 auto;"></img> -->

## Flags

The glags column provides one of three icon:

- Target Grade - Letter/s indicating the target grade, for example _student_23_ is targeting a credit _C_ grade.
- Portfolio Generated - if the Book icon is present, then the student has generated a portfolio in the unit.
- Eye icon - If Doubtfire has detected possible similarities between student work, then an eye icon will be present.

## Tutorials

The tutorial dropdown column shows which tutorial the student is currently enrolled in. This can be easily changed by
clicking the dropdown and changing the tutorial.

## Action Buttons

On the bottom-right hand side of the page, there are two buttons: _Export CSV_ and _enrol Student_.

- Export CSV: Exports a CSV of the information presented including name, student ID, progress, flags and tutorial
  allocation.
- Enrol Student: Manually enrolls a student into the unit.

# Task List

The task list simply lists each of the tasks in a unit. After logging into Doubtfire, and selecting a unit, from the
top-left menu, select _task list_:

<!-- TODO: <img alt="Task List Select" src="/images/articles/students/student-list/task-list.png" style="width: 700px; display:block; margin: 0 auto;"></img> -->

It is broken down into three panels shown below:

<!-- TODO: <img alt="Task List" src="/images/articles/students/student-list/task-list2.png" style="width: 700px; display:block; margin: 0 auto;"></img> -->

## Task List

The first panel, located on the left hand side, is the list of tasks in the unit. Selecting a task will automatically
update the shown task PDF and task details.

## Task PDF

The center panel displays the task sheet PDF which will be presented to students.

## Task Details

The task details, located on the right panel, show the intended learning outcomes for the selected task, the
description, and key information such as the task level, target date, and due date (if applicable).

_Note:_ Task information can no be changed from the task list, it can be changed from the _unit administration_ ->
_task_ tab.

Commit message:

Fix guides' images links, list indentation
Likely isn't the final version of any of these guides

guides/staff/view-class-information.md, after:

---
title: Viewing Class Information
summary: See how to view and interpret student and task lists
authors: jakerenzella
---

# Student List

The student list is an important part of Doubtfire, which shows all enrolled students in a unit, information such as
student class allocation, and an overview of a student's progression through a unit.

To view the student list, log in to Doubtfire and select the unit for which you wish to view the student list from the
top-left dropdown:

![Student List](/guides/view-class-information/student-list.png)

You will see a list of students enrolled in the unit. The list is cut at 15 students per page, with pagination running
across the bottom of the page. By clicking anywhere in a list, you will be taken to the student's profile page, which
shows individual tasks status, their target grade, and burndown chart.

The student list is broken down into a number of sections:

![Student List](/guides/view-class-information/list.png)

## Search bar and filer

The search bar allows you to search and filter for:

- **Student Name:** The search for students with matching names.

- **Tutor Name:** The students presented will belong to the tutor searched for.

- **Tutorial Filter:** By selecting the dropdown on the right hand side, you will be able to apply filters such as:

  - All tutorials
  - My tutorials
  - Sort By Grade
  - Sort By Plagiarism
  - Sort By Portfolio Status

## Basic Information

The left hand panel lists the Student ID, and Name of each student. You can sort by Student ID or Name, and by default
the list is sorted by Name, indicated by the blue triangle next to _name_.

## Stats/Progress

The progress bar in the _stats_ column shows a quick-view of the student's progress through the tasks in the unit. For
example in the screenshot below, student_23 has failed 25% of tasks, not started 25% and completed 50%. You can also
sort by progress -- an easy way to view students who are not progressing through the unit quickly enough.

![Progress](/guides/view-class-information/progress-chart.png)

## Flags

The glags column provides one of three icon:

- Target Grade - Letter/s indicating the target grade, for example _student_23_ is targeting a credit _C_ grade.
- Portfolio Generated - if the Book icon is present, then the student has generated a portfolio in the unit.
- Eye icon - If Doubtfire has detected possible similarities between student work, then an eye icon will be present.

## Tutorials

The tutorial dropdown column shows which tutorial the student is currently enrolled in. This can be easily changed by
clicking the dropdown and changing the tutorial.

## Action Buttons

On the bottom-right hand side of the page, there are two buttons: _Export CSV_ and _enrol Student_.

- Export CSV: Exports a CSV of the information presented including name, student ID, progress, flags and tutorial
  allocation.
- Enrol Student: Manually enrolls a student into the unit.

# Task List

The task list simply lists each of the tasks in a unit. After logging into Doubtfire, and selecting a unit, from the
top-left menu, select _task list_:

![Task List Select](/guides/view-class-information/task-list.png)

It is broken down into three panels shown below:

![Task List](/guides/view-class-information/task-list2.png)

## Task List

The first panel, located on the left hand side, is the list of tasks in the unit. Selecting a task will automatically
update the shown task PDF and task details.

## Task PDF

The center panel displays the task sheet PDF which will be presented to students.

## Task Details

The task details, located on the right panel, show the intended learning outcomes for the selected task, the
description, and key information such as the task level, target date, and due date (if applicable).

_Note:_ Task information can no be changed from the task list, it can be changed from the _unit administration_ ->
_task_ tab.
