source/articles/installation/windows/step-3.html.md, before:

---

title: Step 3 - Setup the Doubtfire Frontend
tags: installation,windows
date: 12-05-2020
author: Matthew Kramersh
author_url: https://github.com/MattK18

---

1. **In the new terminal, run the doubtfire-web setup.** by changing directory to ~/Doubtfire/doubtfire-web and executing the setup script.

    <img alt="Doubtfire set up" src="/images/articles/installation/windows/Doubtfire_one.PNG" style="width: 500px; display:block; margin: 0 auto;"></img>

2. **Start the frontend** by executing npm start. 

     <img alt="Start frontend" src="/images/articles/installation/windows/doubtfire_two.PNG" style="width: 500px; display:block; margin: 0 auto;"></img>

3. **Verify the frontend is running** by navigating to http://localhost:4200/. You should see the Doubtfire login interface (as long as the backend is also running).

    <img alt="Setup doubtfire-api" src="/images/articles/installation/windows/doubtfire_three.PNG" style="width: 500px; display:block; margin: 0 auto;"></img>

    To stop the server, open the terminal window and press Ctrl + C

Commit message:

FIX: Grammatical changes to step-3, and step-4

source/articles/installation/windows/step-3.html.md, after:

---

title: Step 3 - Setup the Doubtfire Frontend
tags: installation,windows
date: 12-05-2020
author: Matthew Kramersh
author_url: https://github.com/MattK18

---

1. **In the new terminal, run the doubtfire-web setup** by changing directory to `~/Doubtfire/doubtfire-web` and executing the setup script.

    <img alt="Doubtfire set up" src="/images/articles/installation/windows/Doubtfire_one.PNG" style="width: 500px; display:block; margin: 0 auto;"></img>

2. **Start the frontend** by executing npm start. 

     <img alt="Start frontend" src="/images/articles/installation/windows/doubtfire_two.PNG" style="width: 500px; display:block; margin: 0 auto;"></img>

3. **Verify the frontend is running** by navigating to `http://localhost:4200/`. You should see the Doubtfire login interface (as long as the backend is also running).

    <img alt="Setup doubtfire-api" src="/images/articles/installation/windows/doubtfire_three.PNG" style="width: 500px; display:block; margin: 0 auto;"></img>

    To stop the server, open the terminal window and press `Ctrl + C`
    
    Continue to step 4 for information regarding development with WSL.
